.\Datetools provide a method of manipulating and working dates and times.
.\Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Chris Caron <lead2gold@gmail.com>
.\
.\This file is part of Datetools.  Datetools is free software; you can
.\redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\
.\This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\GNU General Public License for more details.
.\
.\You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
.\this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.TH datemath 1 "October 19, 2013" "" "Datemath"

.SH NAME
datemath \- provides a way to perform simple math against the current date and time.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B datemath
.RI [ options ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B datemath
program allows you perform simple math calculations against the current date and time.

.SH OPTIONS
Show this help screen.
.B
.IP -s,	--seconds=VAL
Specify the offset (+/-) in seconds.
.B
.IP -n,	--minutes=VAL
Specify the offset (+/-) in minutes.
.B
.IP -o,	--hours=VAL
Specify the offset (+/-) in hours.
.B
.IP -d,	--days=VAL
Specify the offset (+/-) in days.
.B
.IP -m,	--months=VAL
Specify the offset (+/-) in months.
.B
.IP -y,	--years=VAL
Specify the offset (+/-) in years.
.B
.IP -f,	--format=FORMAT
Specify the desired output format. The default is: %Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S

FORMAT controls the output.  Interpreted sequences are:

%a     locale’s abbreviated weekday name (e.g., Sun)

%A     locale’s full weekday name (e.g., Sunday)

%b     locale’s abbreviated month name (e.g., Jan)

%B     locale’s full month name (e.g., January)

%c     locale’s date and time (e.g., Thu Mar  3 23:05:25 2005)

%C     century; like %Y, except omit last two digits (e.g., 20)

%d     day of month (e.g, 01)

%D     date; same as %m/%d/%y

%e     day of month, space padded; same as %_d

%F     full date; same as %Y-%m-%d

%g     last two digits of year of ISO week number (see %G)

%G     year of ISO week number (see %V); normally useful only with %V

%h     same as %b

%H     hour (00..23)

%I     hour (01..12)

%j     day of year (001..366)

%k     hour ( 0..23)

%l     hour ( 1..12)

%m     month (01..12)

%M     minute (00..59)

%n     a newline

%N     nanoseconds (000000000..999999999)

%p     locale’s equivalent of either AM or PM; blank if not known

%P     like %p, but lower case

%r     locale’s 12-hour clock time (e.g., 11:11:04 PM)

%R     24-hour hour and minute; same as %H:%M

%n     a newline

%s     seconds since 1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC

%S     second (00..60)

%T     time; same as %H:%M:%S

%u     day of week (1..7); 1 is Monday

%U     week number of year, with Sunday as first day of week (00..53)

%V     ISO week number, with Monday as first day of week (01..53)

%w     day of week (0..6); 0 is Sunday

%W     week number of year, with Monday as first day of week (00..53)

%x     locale’s date representation (e.g., 12/31/99)

%X     locale’s time representation (e.g., 23:13:48)

%y     last two digits of year (00..99)

%Y     year
.B
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B
datemath
exits with 0 if the time could be successfully calculated otherwise a non-zero value is returned.

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright  ©  2013-2018  Free  Software  Foundation,  Inc.   License  GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO  WARRANTY,  to  the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBdateblock\fP(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Caron <lead2gold@gmail.com>

